---
layout: publication
id: "2010_5"
title: "An Extension of Feature Algebra"
venue_type: technical_report
year: 2010
authors:
  - "Peter Höfner"
  - "Bernhard Möller"
institution: "Institute of Computer Science, University of Augsburg"
number: "2010-09"
pdf: "tr2010-09-UA.pdf"
---

Feature algebra was introduced as an abstract framework for feature oriented software development. One goal is to provide a common, clearly defined basis for the key ideas of feature orientation. So far, feature algebra captures major aspects of feature orientation, like the hierarchical structure of features and feature composition. However, as we will show, it is not able to model aspects at the level of code, i.e., situations where code fragments of different features have to be merged. With other words, it does not reflect details of concret implementations. In the paper we first present concrete models for the original axioms of feature algebra which represent the main concepts of feature oriented programs. This shows that the abstract feature algebra can be interpreted in different ways. We then use these models to show that the axioms of feature algebra do not reflect all aspects of feature orientation properly. This gives the motivation to extend the abstract algebra — which is the second main contribution of the paper. We modify the axioms and introduce the concept of an extended feature algebra. The original algebra can be retrieved by a single additional axiom. As third contribution we introduce more operators to coveer concepts like overriding in the abstract setting.
