---
layout: publication
id: "2012_lr"
title: "Towards a Representation Theorem for Coloring Algebra"
venue_type: workshop
year: 2012
authors:
  - "Peter Höfner"
booktitle: "Workshop on Lattices and Relations (L&R 2012)"
note: "Abstract"
pdf: "2012_hoefner_lr.pdf"
bibtex: |
  @misc{Hoefner2012_lr,
    Author = {H{\"o}fner, Peter},
    Howpublished = {Workshop on Lattices and Relations (L\&R 2012)},
    Note = {(Abstract)},
    Title = {Towards a Representation Theorem for Coloring Algebra},
    Year = {2012}
  }
---

Coloring algebra (CA) captures common ideas of feature oriented programming (FOP), a general programming paradigm that provides formalisms, methods, languages, and tools for building maintainable, customisable, and extensible software. FOP has widespread applications ranging from network protocols and data structures to software product lines. The algebra is based on rings and offers concise axioms for feature composition and feature interaction. From these operations, algebraic laws describing products, product lines and other concepts of FOP can be derived.

This talk introduces coloring algebra and discusses the interplay between feature composition and interaction. Different models are presented together with their applicability to feature oriented programming. The examples show that the choice for defining feature composition is limited. In fact, the composition operator is shown to be isomorphic to symmetric difference in a set-theoretic model, following from Kronecker Basis Theorem. This yields “half” a representation theorem for coloring algebra. The talk concludes with observations and conjectures regarding feature interaction and the structure of coloring algebra towards a full representation theorem.